# 2025-IS-Team-Project
Homomorphic encryption (HE) enables computations on data in an encrypted state. For example, if the encrypted values of random numbers a and b are denoted as E(a) and E(b), (E(): Encryption algorithm), HE can perform multiplication and addition on ciphertext, which means there are special functions Add() and Mult() such that Add(E(a),E(b)) → E(a+b), Mult(E(a),E(b)) → E(a *b). Thus, by decrypting the result, we can obtain the result of multiplication and addition.  Since we can perform such calculations over the hidden plaintext in the ciphertext WITHOUT decrypting them, we say it's an HE. Moreover, if it's possible to compute such operations over infinite number of times. We say the HE as a fully HE.

There are various fully HE algorithms, but we use the CKKS (Cheon-Kim-Kim-Song) algorithm, which is widely used in the field of machine learning and data mining. The CKKS algorithm can operate on the ciphertext of complex numbers, and operates correctly when their magnitudes are at most 1. Within this range of input values, CKKS provides addition and multiplication functions over encrypted input. Expanding this, it is possible to perform homomorphic polynomial operations. That is, if a value x is in the encrypted ciphertext, we can compute an arbitrary polynomial function f(x)=a_(n-1) x^(n-1)+a_(n-2) x^(n-2) )+⋯+a_1 x^ +a_0  on the encrypted input x without decrypting the input. 
In addition, CKKS homomorphic encryption provides SIMD (Single Instruction Multiple Data) function. In other words, it is possible to encrypt tens of thousands of numbers at one an put them in a single ciphertext as if multiple elements can be put in an array, and simultaneous operation (Vector computaton) is possible using the operations provided by HE. Therefore, polynomials for multiple encrypted values can be calculated with only the amount of computation required to perform a single polynomial. For example, for two vectors consisting of five elements as shown below, element-wise multiplication can be completed by a single homomorphic multiplication between two ciphertext.

